---
icon: pen-to-square
date: 2024-12-16
category:
  - Internship journal
tag:
  - China Merchant Bank
---

# Week 3

## Check requirements with the supervisor
#### Modify the logic 
#### Optimize the SQL logic

## General email API on FaaS platform
#### Learn the basic concepts of FaaS platform in China Merchant Bank
#### Create a new function in FaaS service
#### Understand the API structure
#### Deploy a function to FaaS service
#### Log into database
#### Test the function

## Connect API with trace platform
#### Learn the basic concepts of trace platform in China Merchant Bank
#### Integrate the API with trace platform

## General Excel import and export API
#### Reconstruct the Excel import and export API



## Tecnical points
#### 1. What is FaaS?
FaaS is a cloud computing service that allows developers to upload their code and run it on the cloud without having to worry about managing or scaling the infrastructure. It is a serverless computing platform that allows developers to write and run code without worrying about the underlying infrastructure.

#### 2. RestTemplate in Spring
RestTemplate is a Spring class that allows developers to make HTTP requests to RESTful web services. It provides a simple way to perform HTTP requests and handle responses.

- exchange() method: This method allows developers to make a request to a RESTful web service and return the response as a ResponseEntity object.
- getForObject() method: This method allows developers to make a GET request to a RESTful web service and return the response as an object of the specified type.
- postForObject() method: This method allows developers to make a POST request to a RESTful web service and return the response as an object of the specified type.
- getForEntity() method: This method allows developers to make a GET request to a RESTful web service and return the response as a ResponseEntity object.
- postForEntity() method: This method allows developers to make a POST request to a RESTful web service and return the response as a ResponseEntity object.

#### 3. ObjectMapper
ObjectMapper is a class in the Jackson library that allows developers to convert Java objects to JSON and vice versa. It provides a simple way to serialize and deserialize Java objects to and from JSON.
- objectMapper.readValue() method: This method allows developers to convert a JSON string to a Java object.
- objectMapper.writeValueAsString() method: This method allows developers to convert a Java object to a JSON string.

#### 4. HttpServletRequest 
HttpServletRequest is a class in the Spring framework that represents an HTTP request. It provides a way to get information about the request, such as the request method, headers, and parameters.
- httpServletRequest.getMethod() method: This method allows developers to get the HTTP method of the request.
- httpServletRequest.getHeader() method: This method allows developers to get a header of the request.
- httpServletRequest.getParameter() method: This method allows developers to get a parameter of the request.
- httpServletRequest.getInputStream() method: This method allows developers to get the input stream of the HTTP request. It allows developers to read the request body as a byte array.

#### 5. System.getenv() method
System.getenv() method is a method in the Java API that allows developers to get environment variables. It returns a map of environment variables and their values.

