---
icon: pen-to-square
date: 2024-12-23
category:
  - Internship journal
tag:
  - China Merchant Bank
---

# Week 4

## General email API on FaaS platform
#### Write interface document 
#### Code inspection meeting
#### Modify the interface document based on the code inspection meeting

## General notice API 
#### Write interface document 
#### Encapsulate email, zhaohu (working app), sms interfaces into a general notice API 
#### Modify the interface document and codebased on the code inspection meeting
#### Test the general notice API with sample code

## Document auto inspection interface
#### Understand how java can read word and excel files (XWPFPaagraph、XWPFTable) 
#### Understand the interface requirements and design the interface document

## Tecnical points
#### 1. @RequestParam and @RequestBody annotations
@RequestParam annotation is used to bind request parameters to a method parameter. It is used to map request parameters to method parameters. The request parameter name must match the method parameter name.

@RequestBody annotation is used to bind the request body to a method parameter. It is used to map the request body to a method parameter. The request body can be any type of data, such as JSON, XML, or plain text.

#### 2. Parameter of @RequestParam
- required: boolean value, default value is true. If required is true, the parameter must exist in the request. If required is false, the parameter is optional.
- defaultValue: default value of the parameter. If the parameter does not exist in the request, the defaultValue is used.
- name: parameter name. If name is not specified, the parameter name is used.

#### 3. @Primary annotation
@Primary annotation is used to specify the primary bean. If there are multiple beans of the same type, the @Primary annotation is used to specify the primary bean.

#### 4. @PostConstruct and @PreDestroy annotations
@PostConstruct annotation is used to execute some initialization code after the constructor is called.

@PreDestroy annotation is used to execute some cleanup code before the object is destroyed.
