---
icon: pen-to-square
date: 2025-03-02
category:
  - Learning Records
tag:
  - Unimelb
---

# Declarative Programming (COMP90048)

## Week 1

#### Imperative languages are based on commands, in the form of instructions and statements.
- Commands are executed.
- Commands have an effect, such as to update the computation state,and later code may depend on this update.
#### Logic programming languages are based on finding values that satisfy a set of constraints.
- Constraints may have multiple solutions or none at all.
- Constraints do not have an effect.
#### Functional languages are based on evaluating expressions.
- Expressions are evaluated.
- Expressions do not have an effect.

## Prolog
Prolog is a declarative programming language. It is based on logic programming and uses the predicate calculus.

```prolog
% import the test.pl file
% (A small part of) the British Royal family
% parent(queen_elizabeth, prince_charles).
% parent(prince_philip, prince_charles).
% parent(prince_charles, prince_william).
% parent(prince_charles, prince_harry).
% parent(princess_diana, prince_william).
% parent(princess_diana, prince_harry).
?- [test].
%queries
?- parent(prince_charles, prince_william).
% true
% This query asks: of whom Prince Charles is a parent?
?- parent(prince_charles, X)
```

- If there is more than one answer to the query, Prolog prints them one at a time, pausing to see if more solutions are wanted. Typing semicolon asks for more solutions; just hitting enter (return) finishes without more solutions.

### Rules
```prolog
% “X is grandparent of Z if X is parent of Y and Y is parent of Z .”
grandparent(X,Z) :- parent(X, Y), parent(Y, Z).
```
- Rules can be recursive. Prolog has no looping constructs, so recursion is widely used.
```prolog
% A person’s ancestors are their parents and the ancestors of their parents.
ancestor(Anc, Desc) :-parent(Parent, Desc),ancestor(Anc, Parent).
```

### Equality
- Equality in Prolog, written “=” and used as an infix operator, can be used both to bind variables and to check for equality. Prolog is a single-assignment language: once bound, a variable cannot be reassigned.

### Disjunction and Conjunction
- Goals can be combined with disjunction (or) as well as conjunction (and). Disjunction is written “;” and used as an infix operator. Conjunction (“,”) has higher precedence (binds tighter) than disjunction, but parentheses can be used to achieve the desired precedence.

### Negation
- Negation in Prolog is written “\+” and used as a prefix operator. Negation has higher (tighter) precedence than both conjunction and disjunction. Be sure to leave a space between the \+ and an open parenthesis.
```prolog
% Who are the parents of Prince William other than Prince Charles?
?- parent(X, prince_william), \+ X = prince_charles.
X = princess_diana.
```
- Disequality in Prolog is written as an infix “\=”. So X \= Y is the same as \+ X = Y.

### Closed World Assumption
- Prolog assumes that all terms are true, unless explicitly stated otherwise. This is called the closed world assumption (CWA). **This means that if a term is not mentioned in the program, it is assumed to be false**. This can be a problem if the program is used to reason about real-world situations, where some terms may be unknown or undecidable.